So now we're seeing our character kind of come together here.
One thing I'd like to do before I begin detailing this before we actually begin going in and adding
cleaner edges and smoothing the objects and getting them really detailed what I'd like to do is mirror
these pieces over to the other side just so I get a sense of how it's going to look when we've got all
the arms and legs on.
So let's talk about using the mere modifier to do this.
We used it earlier on but now we're going to use it in a little bit different way.
Let's first work on the body here.
I'm going to select the body and what we need to do is Mayre over these pieces.
The shoulder joint here and the leg opening here.
I want to mirror these pieces over to the other side.
To do that we're going to have to delete half of this and this happens a lot in character modeling as
you kind of have to get comfortable deleting half and marrying and then working on one side and then
deleting half again and mirroring.
It's a process that often has to be done several times during the creation of a model.
So let's go ahead and do this to isolate this object.
There are a couple of ways to do that.
But how many do it here is to press the division key on the numpad.
It's kind of a backslash.
So I'm gonna hit that and that will isolate the selected object and then I can hit it again and everything
else will come back.
Now what I want to do is select the half that I want to get rid of.
So I'm going to press the one key and the five key to go to the front.
Orthographic view and the Z key to go to wireframe and then I'll tab into edit mode and use control
tab to go to face mode.
Now I can use the border select with the key and click and drag and get this half selected.
Now I'll hit the x key and delete face's.
So now I could mirror this over.
The problem is that let's take a look at where the pivot point is or where the origin of the object
is.
When we use the mirror modifier it's going to try and mirror the object around the origin.
So for this one if we use the mirror modifier it would try and mirror it around this piece here or around
this spot here.
We need to move the origin not just the pivot point but the origin to the center of the object or more
easily to the center of the grid.
Now this is one place where I think Blendr really shines in that you can move the pivot point and the
origin of the object independently.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to press shift s and move the cursor to the center of the grid.
And then I'm going to come over here to the Tools tab.
And use this set origin.
Pull down menu and change the origin to the 3D cursor and that pops that down into the center of the
grid.
Now when we mirror this it will mirror across your mirror at that origin point.
I'm going to press the End key to take a look at the properties panel too.
Oftentimes if we have rotation on our object we can get some strange behavior when mirroring our objects.
I'm not exactly sure what will happen here but let's give it a try just to prove our point.
I'm going to click the Add modifier and click mirror and you can see now that because of our rotation
this mirror is not exactly the way we'd want it to be.
So let's get rid of the mirror modify our here by hitting the x key.
Now with this object selected in Object mode let's press control a and we get this apply transformation
menu.
So I'm going to apply the rotation and scale Currently I'm going to do that so that will zero out the
rotation and take the scale back to 1.
Now let's try the mirror modifier So I click add modifier and mirror.
That looks a little better.
So now what that's done is it brought over these pieces over to the other side.
Now let's do this again for say the arms here for the time being I think I'm going to combine all the
objects of the arm so I can mirror it over easily.
Ultimately these pieces are going to be broken up into like the upper arm this piece and the shoulder
and also the forearm and the elbow will be one piece and then the hand will be a single piece and then
the fingers will be printed to the hand.
But for now I'm going to just select all of these
I'm going to press the Z key here and press the B key and border select this area so I can select all
of those.
Now that all of those are selected on press control J.
And that will make them all one object.
Now once again the pivot point or the origin of the object is in the wrong place so I'll press shift
s cursor to center and then set origin origin to 3D cursor.
Now when I add that mirror modifier it will mirror over to the other side.
And now we're beginning to get a sense of how this is going to look.
But let's do the same thing for the leg here.
I'll select all these objects press control J and then set origin to the 3D cursor.
Now I'll add the mirror modifier and look at what happened.
The leg mirrored around the wrong spot.
Why did it do that.
Well take a look at the rotation.
We've got 90 degrees in here so that isn't going to work.
I'm going to hit the X to delete the mere modifier and let's hit control a and apply our rotation and
scale.
Now that we've cleaned up these values let's add the mere modifier again.
And then we go so now that we get a sense that this is kind of working for us I think now we'll begin
working on actually detailing the character and breaking it apart and organizing it for the rigging
process.